II. We $. MICHIGAN STATE COllEGE East lansing. Michigan  ,4. 'W. s. HANDBOOK FOR WOMEN STUDENTS ... AT ... MICHIGAN STATE COLLEGE 1940-1941 Published by A. w. s. East Lansing, Michigan  Editor ................................................. Margretta Pryer Social Life ....................................... Dorothy Hunter Fashions.... . ........................ Charlotte Whitten Extra-Curricular .. . ..... Myrtice Schmidlin Art Work .......... .Patricia Kulling Faculty Adviser...... .................. Joseph G. Duncan The A. W. S. office is located on second floor of Administration building, across the hall from the Dean of Women's office. Hours are from 8 to 12 a. m. and from 1 to 5 p. m. on week days, and from 8 to 12 a. m. on Saturdays. 2  We, the women students of Michigan State College, have organized ourselves into an ciation and have voted upon regulations which we agree shall be administered, with the ation and approval of the Dean of Women, by a Council and Judiciary Board, elected from our number. The purpose of our organization is to help establish and maintain high standards of conduct, both social and moral, at Michigan State College. We will strive to attain that purpose by ing ourselves in such a manner that we can be truly willing to have all girls adopt and imitate our ways. 3  'Welcome ·I;wm · Ł . . <lite 01 'k/0IHeH. MISS ELISABETH CONRAD "Greetings" and "Welcome"! If at any time we of this Dean of Women's Office can be of assistance to you in discussing with you any of your problems, remember we are never too busy to try to help you find the right answer. We hope you have chosen Michigan State College because of the friendly spirit and standing training it offers. We ask you to jOin us in being proud of its "good name and fair fame" as created by those students who have preceded you. It is for you now to contribute your part personally and scholastically by worthy re::ords as students and as citizens who are both capable and intelligently loyal. 4  MISS MARJORIE BALDWIN Hello, you new members of A. W. S. Hello and welcome from every student on Michigan State campus. While you're here, we hope these will be the best years of your life. It's up to you that they are. We'll help you. Upon registration, every woman student comes a member of Associated Women Students organization, the governing body of Michigan State College's undergraduate women. All campus organizations in which women students participate are represented in A. W. S. Through A. W. S. you will find what activities will interest you, what honors you may receive, and what is done on this campus. Rules regarding your living here are set up by A. W. S. Judiciary Board. We all want to know you. Help us, and we'll do everything we can to help you. 5  President Vice-President Marjorie Baldwin Jean Widick ELECTED MEMBERS SENIORS Marjorie Baldwin Margretta Pryer Anna Marie Holmes Jean Widick Josephine Wood JUNIORS Jane Clark Vivian Kalmbach Grace Nahstoll SOPHOMORES Sally Sager Margaret White FRESHMEN To be Elected Winter Term Dean of Women Doctor Elisabeth Conrad 6  President of Panhellenic Council President of Spartan Women's League President of Y. W. C. A. President of Mortar Board Women's Editor of Michigan State News Senior Coed Representative of Union Board Freshman Counselor Chairman President of W. A. A. Freshman OTientation Chairman President of Tower Guard President of Home Economics Club Vice-President of A. W. S. Secretary Representative Appointed by Panhellenic President of Each Dormitory Representative Elected by Off-Campus Houses Representative of Co-operative Houses Adviser, Miss Mabel Petersen 7  · ., PoiHt SiJ4km tUUi .eiMiiatituu Fifty points is the highest number of points which an upper c1assman is supposed to carry. After next winter and spring elections no girl may hold over that number of points without presenting her qualifications for doing so to A. W. S. general counciL A survey will be made fall and winter terms to determine final ratings. These women's offices have been estimated cording to the amount of work and bility entailed. 50 Points: 1. President of A. W. S. 2. President of Student Council 3. Editors of Publications 40 Points: 1. Chairman of Judiciary Board 2. President of a. Y. W. C. A. b. S. W. L. c. W. A. A. d. Social Sororities e. Home Economics Club 35 Points: 1. Business managers of student publications 2. Associate Editor of State News 3. Presidents of Dormitories (one term) 8  30 Points: 1. President of Divisional council 2. President of Independent council 3. Chairman of Freshman Orientation 4. Chairman of Vocational Guidance 5. Panhelleni'c chairman 6. Chairman of Freshman coun-selors 7. Presidents of all honor aries requiring active participation 8. A. W. S. Elected members 9. Treasurer of social sorority without nical adviser 10. President of Studio The:lter. 25 Points: 1. Elected member of Student Council 2. Vice-president, if also pledge trainer, of social soroities 3. Associate editor of Wolverine 4. Cabinets of a. S. W. L. b. Y. W. C. A. c. W. A. A. d. Home Economics Club 5. Independent council board 6. Rushing chairman, if also Panhellenic council member 20 Points: 1. Associate editor of Spartan 2. Co-ed editor of State News 9  3. Member of play cast of all-college ductoins 4. Non-credit members of debate teams 15 Points: 1. Discussion chairman for freshman orient-ation 2. Members of Publications staff 3. Union board 4 Chairman of Technical crew for an college play production 5. Rushing chairman 10 Points: 1. Member of crew for all-college play duction 2. Representative to Panhellenic council 5 Points: 1. Membership in any organization (no man allowed more than 10 points her man year without special petition) 10  $1VWeIf Uf, IJ. 'W. $. Each fall A. W. S. sponsors the "Co-ed val" at which time all organizations and clubs on campus in which freshmen women are ested have booths and explanations of theIr activities. You may sign up at their booths for any of the organizations you are interested in Jommg. Your Counselor will call to take you to the Carnival. This year A. W. S. is holding the carnival both in the afternoon and evening, and freshmen are welcome to go both times. A. W. S. has just completed this year a girl's room, up on the fourth floor of the Union building. It is complete with comfortable chairs for studying, couches, lavatory, lockers, and even an iron so that girls who live in Lansing or East Lansing may freshen up. The town-girls have a regular organization and A. W. S. wants you who live in town to feel that it is your room and for your convenience. A. W. S. also has a new office, located.in the Administration' building, just across from the Dean of Women's office. Here we have our filing cabinets, phone, mailbox and desk, with a part-time secretary. We hope to use our office as a clearing house for campus activities this year. During the entire year A. W. S. is busy helping other women's organizations carryon their activities but each spring term, during 11  Senior week, one night is set aside for A. W. S. and one of its outstanding events. That night is Lantern night, held Tuesday during Senior Week of Spring term. Lantern Night was originated by Mrs. Herman Halladay, the wife of the former secretary of the .college. She first imagined the beauty of seeing a procession of girls winding across the campus walks, carrying as they walked, lighted lanterns. Today her dream is a reality and one of the most prized traditions of A. W. S. Each class forms one part of the procession. The seniors are led by the president of A. W. S. and the members of Mortar Board lead the other classes. The procession forms just at sunset. After winding through the sunken gardens, we gather before a platform erected in the Forest of Arden at the foot of Beaumont Tower, where the dent of the College bids farewell and goodspeed to the Senior Class. Following this ceremony the president of A. W. S. for the next year is installed, as well as the new presidents of Mortar Board, Tower Guard, and Panhellenic CounciL To conclude the ceremonies the seniors pass their lanterns to the juniors; the juniors to the wphomores; the sophomores to the freshmen who have not carried lanterns in the procession, thus signifying the passing on of class responsibilties. Every woman student is privileged to take part in this beautiful ceremony, and each year as our college grows the procession of women students grows longer and longer. Next spring you, too, may be a part of Lantern Night. 12  Ł Ł  Sept. 23-Diary dear, I'm all ajimbo over State. My roommate's awfully nice and she's got the cutest accent 'cause she's from down south. And I finally met my Counselor ---the junior who's been writing to me telling me the whys and wherefores about being a coed. Sept. 27-Shh, diary. I've got a secret. You know what? Almost all the girls in the dorm went to the mixer tonight. It seemed as though all the classmen were there, and I met the nicest fellows. But, diary, best of all ---the handsomest sophomore walked me home, and he's taking me to the show Saturday night. Sept. 27-0000h, gosh, am I tired. We walked and walked and walked today. If I don't know this campus now. What a yawn. It's wonderful to have such a darling room to come home to and such a swell roommate! Anyway, I've been all fied n'everything, so now to bed. Sept. 29-Jean, that's my 'roomy', diary, and I are so glad we paid our rushing fees in vance because today we dressed in our extra special outfits and went teaing at all the orities. We managed to get around to all the houses, and the girls were all so nice to us. 14  Sept. 30--The day I've been dreaming about has finally come. First day of classes in a real college. But oh my, am I loaded with work. My profs seem nice, though. Oct. 5-My, this weekend just flew away. Jean B., Jo, and I went to the Michigan game at Ann Arbor, and the State fellows carried off their goal posts. But best of all, I had a perfectly wonderful time at the Victory Dance, and with one of the Michigan State fellows, too. Oct. 22-Today we made peace with the lordly sophs. My, what a ducking they got. Marge and I went with a bU!lch of girls to the barbecue. It was such fun, and the hamburgs and cider were the best ever. A freshman pot (Diary, that's a green hat) missed the bonfire, so Jack got .it for me for my collection. Oct. 29-Culture plus education, diary. Roomy and I went to hear Lily Pons on the Concert and Lecture series this evening. If I could only sing like that! Nov. 14-My Counselor took me to the Coed Carnival this afternoon and I almost went again tonight. The organization booths were so clever! It's so hard to decide what to join. 15  I'm going to join Spartan Women's League and Women's Athletic Association and maybe I'll take in some others next term. They all make me want to be a member! The cider and dougHnuts here are the best I've ever tasted, they must be a specialty of M. S. C. Dec. 18-Diary, Christmas and the thrills of going home ---am I going to make a resolution to study next term _ --these exams! Feb. 14-0h, wonder of wonders! I'm going to the J-Hop next weekend! We have four o'clock permission, and I've heard rumors that the favors and decorations are simply darling. Last year they gave white leather evening bags. This will be the first year it's been held in the new auditorium. Feb. 19-Jean and I went to our first tea-dance today. Tea-dances are held. in the afternoon, diary, and you can go right from cla::ses. Ray, a junior I met last week, called up and asked me to go to his fraternity dinner-dance. He's a smooth dancer and seems like lots of fun. Feb. 23-Gee, midterm grades come out morrow ---do I hope my New Year resolution shows up. My fingers are certainly crossed ---tightly, too. I'm so glad that Jean's S. P., a 16  senior, has asked her to the Senior Ball. They look so cute together. April I5-Coke date at three, and then my first military parade. The fellows all looked so handsome in their uniforms, but I'll bet my striped pajamas that they were slightly warm. But what spring does to this campus is ous ---now I know why they call it one of the most beautiful in the country. May I-Diary, this is the happiest day of my life. Jean and I got up at six this morning, and went to the May Morning Sing which is held every year by the women's h 0 nor societies, Mortar Board and Tower G u a l' d. They tap new bers for the coming year ---and diary, Jean was tapped for Tower Guard. We were all so excited, because the girls serenaded her last night. June ll-Diary dear, you're going to be neglected _ --commencement, senior play, and water carnival are all coming up ---do I have time to write? ---and then final exams, and my first year at State will be over. I had such a lovely time all year, library, going canoeing, and dancing, and I can't make up 17  my mind whether I want to see summer, even though it's vacation. I'll be anxiously looking forward to September, when I can see Jean and Jo and Ray and all the rest again. 18   So over and over again you've told the family purse holder and hind-you that it's an education you crave from Michigan State College? We believe you. In fact, so whole-heartedly do we believe that it is knowledge for which Freshmen coeds come to college that we hanker to initiate you into all its vital branches at once. Following is a sampling of your most important courses, the ones you should aim for an "A" in. LOGIC: The major premise: it's not what you know but whom you know. Inevitable corollary: one would do well to know the right people. To do that you've got to look worth knowing, so your first homework should be "mind your appearance." FRESHMAN ORIENTATION: Your four years at college can be a gradual descent into Avernus to do and how yourself. (freshman look this up), or a persevering climb to greater maturity, character and ership ability (you know what we mean); it's up to you. To 'get started upward in your four college years you should know the essential dos and don'ts of college dress and etiquette; you should be so confident of what to dre?s that you can forget it For instance, you ought to know that: The answer to rambunctious freshman mixers is fairly cool clothes and shoes that leave your feet most unconscious. 20  Receptions call for your best togs,.a silk crepe with social significance, or a velvet charmer whose derriere isn't luminous. Visiting the library and taking freshman tests demand that you haul out your wool or tweed skirt, odd jacket, cotton shirt, and saddles. Or if it's sweltering hot (first weeks always fool us), you'll be able to wear summer duds, perhaps that dark cotton sheer you were smart enough not to pack away. HOME ECONOMICS: You may not be a Home Economics major (three to one you are, though) but we all have to memorize a few Home Ec principles. F'rinstance: 1. A slip straggling under your skirt is a cardinal error, and even Gertrude Steins aren't excused therefore. So, if your skirts are short (warning-watch the college mode for fall), make your slips correspondingly short. 2. Full skirts aren't as subject to sit-itis as straight ones, but both types thrive on occasional pressings, as do dresses, etc., but the ironing board won't be your chief love at college. 3. We wouldn't dare suggest that you clean your saddles, moccasins, and other species of flatties till they're actually white, but we do hint at an occasional session with the shoe cleaning fluid. 4. Clean, press, and repair last fall's clothes; it's not at all necessary to get new clothes for college. The dress that hasn't worn out after four years in Senior High will be brand spanking new to your college friends. 5. Simplicity is the keynote in campus dress. 21  Piain neck lines are best, as we wear gobs of scarves, and amusing costume jewelry. White collars over sweaters also make a neat effect. ANCIENT HISTORY: This includes the study of traditions and your chief assignment will be to: Wear stockings always, even under your bright anklets. This has a two-fold purpose: first, it pleases the Dean of Women and your profs, and more portant, it makes our legs pear half way decent. Hever, bare legs can be exposed in actual sports participation. Wear below -waist -length coats over riding pants. Don shorts, culottes, slacks and ski-pants only for sports; on campus they must be covered by a full-length coat. Wear a knock-about felt hat or go headed, just as fancy or your psyche moves you. Skirts, sweaters, and flat shoes comprise the traditional campus costume, a costume that has infinite possibilities and variation. NEVER OVERDRESS. When in doubt, trust to the informal and simple. But always be tractively neat; conclaves and conventions overrun our campus, and visitors are much pressed by spruce-looking coeds. ATHLETICS: "Athletics" means football to M. S. C. coeds. Four times during fall term we all go to Macklin Field and exude pride for Bachman's boys. For home games we cheer in casual campus-wear, but when we follow 22  our eleven to rival stadiums we splurge a bit. Thus, the Michigan game is apt to mean fairly high-heeled shoes, your three-piece suit, and a really snappy hat. Good looking wool frocks with top coats, or tailored two--piecers are also smart. Phys Ed courses usually have regulation suits, so you won't have to worry on this score. MODERN GREEKS: You guessed it ---rushing! ! This course is not important to every one, but for those of you who decide to take in some rushing parties, "what to wear" will loom importantly. The answer is, wear what makes you look up-to-date but not flashy. Which means hat, gloves, and purse, maybe with steaming your black velvet or colored velveteen with the fetching lace collar and cuffs; or perhaps it means putting on a silk crepe, or donning your wool best-looker. Avoid over-elaborate dress which buries the fact that you have poise and shining character. A couple of tips to help the good impression we know you'll make: If you don't smoke, don't refuse cigarettes with a holier-than-thou "I never smoke." "Not now" or "Thank you, no" serves better. Second, it's an invaluable asset if you can carryon an intelligent conversation after the preliminary cross-examination and chit-chat, but don't do all the carrying, listen too. Again, one good looking (but not sensational) 23  outfit, complete with hat, gloves, and purse, will see you through a strenuous rushing season. For the preference dinner, you"ll want either a dinner dress or your "strictly formal" with its matching jacket or bolero. Interesting costumes may also be composed of evening skirts with demurish blouses or sophisticated sweaters. ETHICS: Sunday church will also find you in the outfit that took you to rushing teas. MODERN DRAMA: Yum . . . formal parties . . big name bands . . . luscious four-course dinner ... gorgeous evening gown ... fellows sobered by tuxes . . . blind dates ... exciting new men . . . powdering your roommate's back ... borrowing a out hat or wide red belt . . . surely college social life is modern drama, especially winter term. For the gala occasions you'll be your most fem-inine and appealing self in a creation dreamed-up just for you ... Maybe it will be silk, maybe vet, brocade, taffeta or silk jersey ... If you're the talliangorous type, play up your charms with sleek satin; but the best cue for freshmen is to emphasize the naive and sweetly youthful a touch of ruffles, ribbon or rosebuds. Black velvet evening wraps, softened by white bunny fur on hood or collar remain the heavy favorite, but we suggest you look into the long wool coats 24  r /, before investing. We noticed two especially impressive numbers, one red with scintillating gold paillettes sprinkled along the shoulder line and down the front, the other a collarless beige. Also noteworthy, but not necessary, for evening wear are fur coats, capes, and quilted taffeta wraps. A few daring people wear elbow length kid evening gloves with formals, but the angora mittens you spent the summer knitting will be quite as perfect, and much less over-awing to the men. But college social life isn't all glamorous J -Hops and Senior Balls, Soph Proms and Frosh Frolics; you'll find that your movie or dancing dates play just as exciting a part in Modern Drama. Your "good" dress--perhaps a princess style silk crepe in your most becoming color or your "fetchingest" wool-will be your choice for these dates. If it's a day-time date where you see how long you can dawdle over one coke, you'll wear the usual skirt and sweater bination; the same goes for library dates. And so it goes -_ -We could hint that snuggly Dr. Denton pajamas are coed favorites,-that a housecoat of some description is a "must",-that you'll never be sorry for pair on pair of vivid anklets ---but by now you don't need this pony. For by now you've figured out the essence of college clothes' smartness: dress simply, suit the occasion, and don't dress beyond your means. The girl with one carefully filled clothes grip can look as smart as the girl who blows in with twelve trunks; it's just a matter of selection. 25   If you're interested in sports, you'll find that W. A. "A., the Women's Athletic Association, will give you plenty of opportunities to play tennis, badminton, golf, baseball (they have their own team), swming, archery and many other sports. You earn points for playing and at the end of the year get numerals and letters if you have enough points. No matter whether you become a sorority or an independent girl, you will have a chance for activities and friendship because if you pledge you will be ed on Panhellenic council and be able to participate in their style shows, bridges etc., and if you join Independent Association of men and women, you are offered a chance for leadership and social contacts. We have three student publications at M. S. C., and if you're interested in writing or photography you can join any of the staffs, the State News, our tri-weekly college 27  paper, the Wolverine, the college year-book, or the Spartan, monthly magazine. Michigan, State has a Y. W. C. A. which meets in Peoples church and has individual group meetings each week as well as numerous teas and social programs. Also there is S. W. L., Spartan Women's League, an all-campus organization for women interested in furthering activities and friendship on our campus. These are but a few of the many organizations and clubs on campus in which you will find opportunities for activities, professional interests, and social contacts. Don't worry about these before hand, you'll hear worlds about them at the Co-ed Carnival in November. Up to that time _ --books, my dear, and people! 28   ARTICLE I NAME AND OBJECTIVE Section 1. The name of this organization shall be the Associated Women Students of Michigan State College. Section 2. The objective of this association is to a. Further the spirit of campus cooperation and friendship. b. Increase the individual sense of responsibility for maintaining this spirit on the campus and to promote high standards. c. Supervise all matters pertaining to social conduct of the women students of Michigan State lege. ARTICLE II MEMBERSHIP AND DUES Section 1. AU undergraduate women students shall be ipso-facto members of the Associated Women Students by virtue of payment of fees at the time of registration. Section 2. According to college regulations, the A. W. S. Executive Council shall, in the spring term, draw up and present to the College Treasurer a proposed budget of funds necessary for the following year. The total amount of the budget shall be subject to proval by the Treasurer and Faculty Committee. 30  ARTICLE III OFFICERS Section 1. The officers of this Association shall be President, Vice-President, tary and Treasurer. This shall stitute the Executive Board. The President and Vice-President shall have served on the Council and shall be elected by the women of this campus at large from the coming Senior Class. The Treasurer shall be a Junior. Sectior. 2. Duties of Officers: a. The President shall call and side over all meetings. She shall have power to make all tee appointments with the proval of the executive board and to render emergency decisions subject to ratification of the cutive board. She shall perform the general duties of an executive. b. The Vice-President shall assume the duties of President during her absence. She shall advise with matrons and supervisors of all student and dormitories. She shall preside over Judiciary Board. During her absence, the secretary of Judiciary Board shall so act. c. The Secretary shall record aU minutes of the meetings of the 31  A. W. S. Council and take care of all correspondence. d. The Treasurer shall perform the duties that regularly pertain to this office and shall advise with the College Comptroller. e. The Chairman of Activities shall be in charge of the card catalogue and women's activity calendar. ARTICLE IV ORGANIZATION OF' A. W. S. COUNCIL Section 1. Membership: a. This organization is composed of A. W. S. Council and a Judiciary Board. b. The elected members of the A. W. S. Council shall consist of the President, four senior bers, three junior members, two sophomore members, and one freshman member elected after fall term. c. The representative members shall include the President of Palenic, President of Spartan men's League, President of Y. W. C. A., President of W. A. A., President of Mortar Board, Co-ed Editor of the State News, the senior co-ed representative of the Union board, the Freshman Counselor Chairman, President of the Home Economics Club, Fresh-32  man Orientation Chairman, dent of Tower Guard and Vice President of Independents. The Dean of Women shall be an officio member. d. There shall be a Judiciary Board of which the Vice-President of A. W. S. shall act as Chairman. Other members shall include: Secretary, chosen each term ferably an elected member of A. W. S.), a representative elected by Panhellenic each term, dent of each Dormitory, one presentative elected by the operative houses. and one sentative elected by other campus houses at the time of election of dormitory officers. A representative from the Office of the Dean of Women and the President of A. W. S. are officio members. Section 2. Election of Members: a. The election shall take place at winter term all-college elections. Nominations for members of the Associated W 0 men Students' Council shall be made by the preceding Greater Council and Judiciary Board. Lists composed of twice the number of proposed candidates shall be presented to A. W. S. Executive Board to check for eligibility. Petitions for fresh-33  man representative must be mitted to A. W. S. Council for consideration by the Monday lowing the first complete week of winter term, the election to take place in freshman lectures. Section 3. In case of absence for one term or ineligibility of any elected ber, candidates having the next highest vote in winter elections shall fill the vacancy. ARTICLE V MEETINGS Section 1. The A. W. S. Council shall meet the first Tuesday of each r.ew term and on alternate Tue,day nights after at 7:00 p. m. The Judiciary Board shall meet at 5:00 p. m. every Tuesday. The Executive Board shall meet at the call of the President. Section 2. Three unexcused absences fro m meeting shall constitute grounds for the recall of elected member. ganizations shall be fined for each meeting at which they are not sented. Alternates may substitute for the dormitory and organization representatives. Section 3. The delegates to the A. W. S. Conventions shall be the dent-Elect and one other delegate, and upon their return they shall present a report in writing at· the 34  first meeting of the A. W. S. Council. b. The Council shall hold an annual meeting which will be the last time the new and old Council meet together. At this time the Secretary, Treasurer, and man of the Judiciary Board shall read their reports of the year's work. The reports of other cers shall be placed on file in the customary manner. Section 4. Installation of new officers shall take place in a public ceremony on Lantern Night. Section 5. Officers of A. W. S. and elected House Presidents shall take inations from the presiding officer covering subject matter pertaining to their duties. ARTICLE VI DUTIES OF THE COUNCIL Section 1. The duties of the A. W. S. Council shall be: a. To order the disbursement of all funds. b. To prepare the final list of inees for A. W. S. Council bership. c. To formulate and further such policies and plans as shall be of all-campus interest to women 35  students. All campus projects may be presented to this group by committees or individuals wishing cooperation from women's ganizations. Section 2. The duties of the Judiciary Board shall be: a. To hear and judge disciplinary cases and consider judiciary ters. Disciplinary cases shall have the right to appeal to A. W. S. Council. b. To have jurisdiction over house rules. c. To interpret A. W. S. rules. d. To supervise and verify the house reports. ARTICLE VII AMENDMENTS Section 1. Amendments may be made to the Constitution by a majority count of the votes cast by women students of the college at any election fied by A. W. S. Greater Council. Such amendments must be posted in written form in dormitories, A. W. S. office, women's gymnasium and other women's buildings ten days before the appointed date of election. 36  1. Organization: a. Women's houses shall have a House Council and such other officers and mittees as may be deemed necessary. Each organized house shall have a dent, fire captain, and necessary officers and committees. Dormitory rules approved by the Judiciary Board should be posted in printed form at the ning of the fall term by the spring term president and the house council of the previous year. 2. Officers: a. The House Council for all college tories shall consist of a president chosen from the entire dormitory, tives from each floor and such other house officers as may be desired. b. There shall be at least three nominees for president, upperclass girls, who have been in residence in this house not less than one term, and whose scholastic average for each of the two preceding terms has not been less than "C". No nominees with less than "C" average shall be considered for any office. nees for social chairmanship shall have been in residence at least one term. Complete slate must be submitted to the Judiciary Board for ratification. c. The House Council shall be charged witll 37  the execution of this Constitution and shall draw up such additional house rules and regulations as may seem necessary or advisable, and shall submit these regulations to the Judiciary Board for ratification, after which the House Council shall have charge of the enforcement of these approved ratifications. d. Every dormitory and sorority house shall choose a fire chief whose duties shall consist in advising with the Buildings and Grounds department for fire drills and taking other precautions against fire. e. Approved houses shall have proctors responsible to the House Council for the enforcement of quiet hours. 3. Method of Organization: a. The Sunday of the first term and the Wednesday of the second and third terms, the Judiciary Board shall arrange for a meeting of all members of each dormitory. The Judiciary Board members shall take charge of the meeting when nominations for fall term officers are being made and elections held. b. The names of the girls nominated shall be posted at least two days before tion, which will be held the Wednesday of the first week after the opening of each term. c. Dormitory officers shall be elected each term. 38  I. Girls are required to respect rulings ing smoking on the campus or in college buildings. II. Quiet Hours shall be: 8 to 11 a. m. Monday to Friday inclusive; 1 to 4 p. m. Monday to Friday inclusive; 8 p. m. to 6:30 a. m., Sunday to Thursday inclusive. On Friday and Saturday evenings reasonable quiet hours shall prevail after 10 p. m. On day quiet will extend until 8:30 a. m. phone calls shall not be received in tories after 10:30 p. m. or in off-campus houses after 11 p. m., except in cases of emergency. III. Hours: A. Freshman hours: 1. Mid-week hours: 9:45 o'clock sion until Friday of Fre:::hman Week. Freshman women are to be in their respective houses at 9 p. m. on day, Tuesday, Wednesday anc day nights. 2. Sunday: 9:30 p. m., all terms. 3. Friday: 12:30, Fall and Spring Terms: 1 :00 a. m., Winter Term. 4. Saturday: 12:30, all terms. B. Upperclassmen hours: 1. Mid-week hours: Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday, 10 p. m. 39  2. Sunday: 10:30 p. m. 3. Friday: 12:30 a. m., Fall and Spring; 1:00 a. m., Winter Term. 4. Saturday, 12:30, all terms. (See special senior ruling for spring term). 5. All roomers in undergraduate houses must keep undergraduate hours. 6. The dormitory closing hour is 8:00 p. m. the night before the opening of school of each term. Students having special late permission. must leave the dormitory before its closing hours. A girl cannot leave the mitory before 7:00 a. m. without having registered with the hostess. 7. Girls accepting employment for special evening occasions in private homes must sign out as "working" and state the place of employment. The Houesmother's permission must be obtained in advance. If the hours extend beyond regular closing time, the girl must be accompanied to her residence, returning direct, and thus avoiding late minutes to be made up. 8. Late permissions are not to exceed 12:00 for plays, con.certs, lectures in Lansing, etc. The ticket must be shown to the Housemother and she must be notified before leaving. 40  C. Special hours at the of each term: 1. Fall term-2. September 22, 1940-8:00 p. m. mission. September 23 to 26-9:45 p. m. mission for Freshmen. September 27 and 28-12:30 a. m. September 29, 1940-regular hours. Winter term-January 5, 1941-8:00 p. m. permis-sion. January 6, 1941-12:30 a. m. permis-sion. January 7, 1941-regular hours. 3. Spring term-March 30, 1941-8:00 p. m. March 31, 1941-12:30 a. m. sion. April 1, 1941-regular hours. May 29. 1941-12:30 a. m. permission. D. Further regulations: 1. Every student has the privilege of petitioning the Judiciary Board to excuse late minutes. A tardiness of more than thirty minutes must be referred to the Judiciary Board. 2. Freshmen with a "B" average shall have the privilege of petitioning the Judiciary Board for upper-class hours for the ensuing term. " 3. Senior hours during the Spring term shall be 11 :00 p. m., except Friday and 41  Saturday; Wednesday, 12 p. m. for "Senior Parties." Seniors with "C" average graduating at the end of Fall or Winter Term, may petition for senior privileges the preceding Spring Term. This privilege is not permitted a second time to one student. 4. Guests' visiting hours in dormitories and houses shall be the same as ning hours for women students, which does not include the special permit of 11 p. m. for seniors. Calling hours shall not start before 4 p. m., except on Saturday and Sunday, when they begin after the mid-day meaL The hostess receives any late minutes cumulated by her guest. 5. Women shall not go to fraternity houses or men's rooms where an proved chaperon is not present. 6. A record shall be kept of late utes. An accumulation of fifteen late minutes results in the forfeiting of one week-end night chosen from the lowing two week-ends. A second offense calls for automatically forfeiting one entire week-end, including day, Saturday, and Sunday nights. 7. A returning student unavoidably layed for emergency reasons shall telephone or telegraph her mother immediately, and later write an explanatory letter to Judiciary Board. These telephone charges may 42  be reversed temporarily and paid later to the College Treasurer. . 8. College women shall return to their houses within fifteen minutes after the close of a special mid-week pus function and directly from sing from a function for which late permission has been granted. IV. Women students leaving East Lansing ing the college term will comply with the following regulations: A. The name and address of the hostess and the telephone number if possible must be recorded on the A. W. S. record sheet, as also the proposed time of return. B. Trips for out of town may take place over Friday and Saturday evenings, vided they meet with the approval of the student's family and that hours are within A. W. S. rules. C. For absence on other than Friday or Saturday evenings a written permit must be obtained in advance from the man of the Judiciary Board or the dent of A. W. S., or the Dean of Women's Office. Freshmen must have in addition a permission from home for any night absences. All new girls need special out-of-lown permits first term. D. College women planning to leave the city on automobile trips, involving more than 45 miles of driving, shall receive 43  family consent if they are starting later than 11:30 p. m. E. Absences from a college residence for overnight visits will be regulated as lows: granted with a written permit from the adviser of Judiciary Board: 1. One night a term out in a Lansing or East Lansing home. 2. Or two nights a term in sorority house or dormitory. 3. Or one night in a Lansing or East Lansing home and one night in a sorority house or dormitory. 4. Further overnight permission must be specially granted by the ciary Board. 5. Any exception to the above lations must be arranged for in vance with the Judiciary Board or its advisor. V. Registration of Residence: A. All women students must register at the office of the Dean of Women any change of address during the school year. B. Out-of-town students shall live only in houses listed and approved by the Office of the Dean of Women. These students must obtain a permit from the Office of the Dean of Women for any change in address. VI. Final examination. week hours and tions. A. Any fifteen minute lateness which is completed this week-end or three blue 44  slips acquired this week will be made by staying in after 8:00 p. m. for three nights of examination week. ing examination week, one night will be made up for every five minutes of ness, blue slip, or warning incurred ing the week. Any deliberate ment of returning hours will be dealt with by the Office of the Dean of Women, as the Judiciary Board does not meet during examination week. B. During the week of final examinations, 11 p. m. permission is granted to the person who has no examination before noon on the following day and 12 p. m. permission on the evening following her last examination. Examination schedule must be presented to Housemother fore such permissions are used. C. Dormitories close officially at 8 p. m. of the Friday night of examination week. Any girl wishing to remain in a tory or sorority house later than 8 p. m. Friday or more than 24 hours after her last examination must see Miss Petersen or Miss Conrad. D. No overnight guest permits examination week and during inter-term vacations. VII. Judiciary Board shall review and present a list of accepted entertainments at the ginning of each term for which late mission will be granted during the week. 45  dJiIIe Retjulaiituu dJ04 1. Fire Captain. A fire captain for each tory shall be elected at the first of every term. She shall have supervision of all fire drills and be responsible to the Council. 2. Floor Aides. At least one aide for each floor of the dormitory shall be appointed by the fire captain of that dormitory. 3. Duties of the Fire Captain: a. To take command in case of fire. b. To have general supervision of all fire drills and be responsible for their ency. c. To call the roll. d. To be responsible in case of real fire for notification of the fire department. 4. Duties of the Fire Aides: a. In the absence of the Fire Captain of the dormitory the first aide on the first floor takes command. b. The aides on each floor are to be sible for the presence of everyone on their floor at drills; they must have a list of those for whom they are responsible, and must see that they are in line, ready to go down stairs, and that order is preserved during fire drills, and in case of fire. c. Fire drills shall be called and regulations posted subject to the order of the intendent of Buildings. 46  