1938 -1939 «» Associated Women Students MICHIGAN STATE COLLEGE  A. W. S. «» REGULATIONS FOR WOMEN STUDENTS AT MICHIGAN STATE COLLEGE «» 1938 -1939 Published by A. W. S.  To the women of the Class of 1942 this handbook is dedicated by the Associated Women Students of the CoHege in the Spirit of gan State fellowship. {The office of the Dean of Women t is located on the second floor of the Administration building. Houl's are from 8 to 12 a. m. and from 1 to 5 p. m. on week days, and from 8 to 12 a. m. on Saturdays. 2  CODE We, the women students of Michigan State College, have organized ourselves into an association and have voted upon regulations which we agree shall be ministered, with the cooperation and approval of the Dean of Women, by a cil and Judiciary Board elected from our number. Our purposes are to help establish and maintain high social and moral standards at Michigan State College. Therefore we will strive: 1. To be loyal to ourselves and to be true to our word in all our obligations and in all our statements. 2. To be loyal to others. To be ful and intelligent in our efforts to make the right things prevail. 3. To maintain scrupulous honesty in scholarship, and in our pledged word. 4. To conduct ourselves as individuals in such a manner that we can be truly willing to have any girl in the community adopt and imitate our ways. 3  MEMBERS OF THE COUNCIL OF A. W. S. GEORGE ANN SHAW .. __ ..................... President LINDA EVANS ........................... Vice-President NANCY BROWN ................................... Secretary JULIA H. AGETT ............................... Treasurer MARION PATCH .................. Activity Chairman Elected SENIOR MARGARET KILLEEN LINDA EVANS LOIS LAND JANE SHAW GEORGE ANN SHAW JUNIOR MARION PATCH ROSEMARY LEE MRS. JULIA H. AGETT SOPHOMORE NANCY BROWN ELEANOR CRAM FRESHMAN REPRESENTATIVE ELECTED WINTER TERM MISS ELISABETH CONRAD Dean of Women 4  REPRESENT ATIVE MEMBERS President of Panhellenic. Chairman of Spartan Women's League. President of Y. W. C. A. President of Mortar Board. Co-ed Editor of State News. Senior Co-ed Representative of Union Board. Freshman Counselor Chairman. President of W. A. A. Freshman Orientation Chairman. President of Tower Guard. President of Home Economics Club. Vocational Guidance Representative. JUDICIARY BOARD Vice-President of A. W. S ..... Linda Evans Secretary-Representative appointed by Pan Hellenic. President of each dormitory. Representative elected by off-campus houses. Advisor.... . .. Miss Mabel Petersen 5  MISS ELISABETH CONRAD Dean of Women 6  As adviser to the A. W. S. it is my lege to join with the A. W. S. President in greeting you who are entering as new students. Whether you come as Freshmen or with advance standing because you have attended a Junior College, or as a transfer student from some other four-year college, I welcome you and hope you will rapidly find yourself happy and successful bere. There will be much at Michigan State College which differs from your former surroundings. You have left the old, and we expect you to try to understand and love our college traditions and customs. If they are fine, help us maintain them. If at first you resent them, come and talk with someone who knows their meaning and this college's history before you violate them. We want you to be glad you chose Michigan State College, and we want to be proud of you as students and as citizens. The regulations as set down in this little book are the rules under which you are expected to work and play while here. Accept them and abide by them on your honor. They have grown out of student experience. Please find your way to my office as to a center which is maintained to furnish you information and help. You will find here information on rcfoms, employment, loans, study problems, Sophomore selors, academic advisers if yours is lost or unsympathetic, and on many questions which may be puzzling to you. No matter what the subject of your question is, come right along with it and let us save you a misstep which might be embarrassing. We keep your confidence. ELISABETH CONRAD, Dean of Women. 7  GEORGE ANN SHAW President, A. W. S. 8  To all you new members of the Associated Women Students of Michigan State College-welcome! I say this in behalf of the officers and members of A. W. S. Upon registration, each one of you is automatically a member of this organization-it is your organization .. We're going to need your active interest and assistance to maintain unity and thus build toward success. Each one of you has a Big Sister and the advantages of our Freshman tion to ease your entrance into campus life. This handbook is also for that pose. Make your entrance into Michigan State College wholehearted -cultivate many friends, find your place in activities, enjoy your courses of study. In your class we place our hopes: that your four years' stay may be profitable to you and to your college. So much of your college career depends upon the foundation built during your first year. May we help you build that foundation? Sincerely, GEORGE ANN SHAW, President of A. W. S. 9  CONSTITUTION AND BY-LAWS ASSOCIATED WOMEN STUDENTS MICHIGAN STATE COLLEGE ARTICLE I NAME AND OBJECT Section 1. The name of this tion shall be the Associated Women dents of Michigan State College. Section 2. The object of this asstion is to a. Further the spirit of campus cooperation and friendship. b. Increase the individual sense of responsibility for maintaining this spirit on the campus and to promote high standards. c. Supervise all matters pertaining to social conduct of the women students of Michigan State College. ARTICLE II MEMBERSHIP AND DUES Section 1. All undergraduate women students shall be ipso-facto members of the Associated Women Students by virtue of payment of dues at the time of tion. Section 2. Annual dues for the year 1938-39 shall be paid in three installments, collectible with other student fees at the time of payment of regular student fees. The amount of the fees is determined by student vote, subject to approval by lege authorities. 10  ARTICLE III OFFICERS Section 1. The officers of this Ation shall be President, Vice-Prosident, Secretary and Treasurer, This shall constute the Executive Board. The President shall have served on the Council. The Vice-President shall have served on the Council or Judiciary Board. The President shall be elected by the women of this campus at large from the incoming Senior Class, The Treasurer shall be a Junior. Section 2. Duties of officers: a. The President shall call and preside over all meetings. She shall have power to make all committee appointments with the approval of the executive board and to render emergency decisions subject to ratification by the executive board. She shall perform the general duties of an executive, b. The Vice-President shall assume the duties of President during her absence, She shall advise with matrons and supervisors of all student houses and tories, She shall preside over Judiciary Board except during the absence of the President, at which time the secretatry of Judiciary Board shall so act. c. Chairman of Activities shall be in charge of card catalog and women's ity calendar. d. The Secretary shall record all utes of the meetings of the A. W. S, cil and take care of all correspondence. e. The Treasurer. shall perform the 11  duties that regularly pertain to this office and shall advise with the College troller. ARTICLE IV ORGANIZATION Section 1. This organization is posed of A W. S. Council and a Judiciary Board. The elected members of the A W. S. Council shall consist of the President, four senior members, three junior members, two sophomore members, and one freshman member elected after fall term. The sentative members shall include the dent of Panhellenic, Chairman of Spartan Women's League, President of Y. W. C. A, President of W. A A, President of Mortar Board, Co-ed Editor of the State News, the senior Co-ed representative of the Union Board, the Freshman Counselor Chairman, President of Home Economics Club, man Orientation Chairman, President of Tower Guard, and Vocational Guidance Representative. The Dean of Women shall be an ex-officio member. There shall be a Judiciary Board of which the Vice-President of A. W. S. shall act as Chairman. Other members shall clude: Secretary, chosen each term (preferably an elected member of A. W. S.), a representative elected by Pan hellenic each term, President of each Dormitory, and a representative elected by off-campus houses at the time of election of tory officers. A representative from the Office of the Dean of Women and the President of A W. S. are ex-officio bers. Section 2. The Election of Council 12 I J  Members. The election shall I ace at winter term all-college election. )f0minations for members of the Associated Women Students' Council shall be made by the preceding Greater Council and Judiciary Board. Lists composed of twice the number of propsed candidates shall be presented to A. W. S. Executive Board to check for eligibility. Petitions for freshman sentative must be submitted to A. W. S. Council for consideration by the Monday following the first complete week of winter term, the election to take place in freshman lectures. Section 3. In case of absence for one term or ineligibility of any elected ber, candidates having the next highest vote in winter elections shall fill the vacancy. ARTICLE V MEETINGS Section 1. The A. W. S. Council shall meet on alternate Tuesdays at 7:00 P. M.; the Judiciary Board shall meet at 5:00 P. M. every Tuesday; the Executive Board shall meet at the call of the President. Section 2. Three unexcused absences from meeting shall constitute grounds for the recall of the elected member tions shall be fined for each meeting at which they are not represented). Alternates may substitute for the dormitory and organization representatives. Section 3. a. The delegates to the A. W. S. Conventions shall be the dent-Elect and one other delegate, and 13  upon their return they shall present a report in writing at the first meeting of the A. W. S. Council. b. The Council shall hold an annual meeting which will be the last time the new and old Council meet together. At this time the Secretary, Treasurer, and Chairman of the Judiciary Board shall read their reports of the year's work. The reports of the other officers shall be placed on file in the customary manner. Section 4. Installation of new officers shall take place in a public ceremony on Lantern night. Section 5. Officers of A. W. S. and elected House Presidents shall take inations from the presiding officer ing subject matter pertaining to their duties. ARTICLE VI Section 1. The duties of A. W. S. cil shall be: a. The ordering of the disbursement of all funds. b. The preparing of the final list of nominees for A. W: S. Council membership. c. This Council shall formulate and further such policies and plans as shall be of all-campus social and general est to women students. All campus projects may be presented to this group for consideration by joint committees or others wishing cooperation for women's organizations. 14  Section 2. The duties of the Judiciary Board shall be: a. To hear and judge disciplinary cases and consider judiciary matters. Serious cases have right to appeal to A. W. S. Council. b. To have jurisdiction over house rules. c. To interpret A. W. S. rules. d. To supervise and verify the house reports. ARTICLE VII Amendments may be made to the stitution by a majority count of the votes cast by women students of the College voting at spring elections. The proposed amendments must be presented to the women students by the Council in advance of election date. HOUSE CONSTITUTION 1. Organization. Women's houses shall have a House Council and such other officers and committees as· may be deemed necessary. Each organized house shall have a president, quiet proctors, fire tain and necessary officers and committees. 2. Officers: a. The House Council for all college dormitories shall consist of a president chosen from the entire dormitory, representatives from each floor and such other house officers as may be desired. b. There shall be at least three nomi-15  nees for president, upperclass girls, who have been in residence in this house not less than one term, and whose scholastic average for each of the two preceding terms has not been less than "C". No nominees with less than "c" average shall be considered for any office. Nominees for social chairmanship shall have been in residence at least one term. Complete slate must be submitted to the Judiciary Board for ratification. c. The House Council shall be charged with the execution of this Constitution and shall draw up such additional house rules and regulations as may seem necessary or advisable, and shall submit these regulations to the Judiciary Board for ratification after which the House Council shall have charge of the enforcement of these approved ratifications. d. Every dormitory and sorority house shall choose a fire chief whose duties shall consist in advising with the Buildings and Grounds department for fire drills and taking other precautions against fire. e. Approved houses shall have proctors responsible to the House Council for the enforcement of quiet hours. 3. Method of organization: a. The Sunday of the first term and the Wednesday of the second and third terms, ) the Judiciary Board shall arrange for a meeting of all members of each dormitory. The Judiciary' Board members shall take charge of the meetings when nominations for fall term officers are being made and elections held. 16  b. The names of the girls nominated shall be posted at least two days before election, which will be held the day of the first week after the opening of each term. c. Dormitory officers shall be elected each term. d. There shall be at least one meeting of dormitory proctors per month supervised by Judiciary Board. BY-LAWS I. Girls are required to respect rulings regarding smoking on the campus or in college buildings. II. Quiet Hours: A. 8 to 11 A. M., Monday to Friday clusive; 1 to 4 P. M., Monday to Friday clusive; 8 P. M. to 6:30 A. M., Sunday to Thursday inclusive. On Friday and Saturday evenings reasonable quiet hours shall prevail after 10 P. lVI. On Sunday they wiU extend until 8 :30 A. M. Telephone calls shall not be received in dormitories after 10:30 P. M. or in off-campus houses after 11 P. M., except in cases of emergency. B. Proctors shall enforce quiet hours. III. Hours: A. Freshmen hours: 1. Mid-week hours: 11 o'clock sion until Friday of Freshman Week. Freshmen women are to be in their spective houses at 9 P. M. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday nights. 17  2. Sunday: 9:30, all terms. 3. Friday: 12:30, Fall and Spring Terms; I :00, Winter Term. 4. Saturday: 12:30, all terms. B. Upperclassmen hours: 1. Mid-week hours: Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday, 10 P. M. 2. Sunday: 10:30 P. M. 3. Friday: 12:30, Fall and Spring, 1:00, Winter Term. 4. Saturday: 12:30, all terms. (See cial senior rulings for spring term.) 5. All roomers in undergraduate houses must keep undergraduate hours. 6. A. W. S. rules become effective as soon as girls enter college houses. At the beginning of each term, 12:30 permission will be granted until the night before lar classes start, when all regular A and B regulations go into effect. This does not include Sunday night permission, which does not extend beyond 11 P. M. C. Further Regulations: 1. Proctors must enforce the rules of quiet hours; i. e., absolute quiet after 8 P. M. on week nights; week-end nights, reasonably quiet after 12; absolute quiet after 1 :00 A. M. 2. Freshmen with a "B" average shall have the privilege of petitioning the cil for upper class hours for the ensuing term. 3. Senior hours during the Spring Term shall be 11 P. M., except Friday and Saturday; Wednesday, 12 P. M. for "Senior 18  Parties." Seniors with "C" average uating at the end of Fall Term or Winter Term, may petition for senior privileges the preceding Spring Term. The granting of this privilege is not permitted a second time to one student. 4. Guests' visiting hours in dormitories and houses shall be the same as evening hours for women students, which does not include the special permit of 11 P. M. for seniors. Calling hours shall not start fore 4 P. M., except on Saturday and day, when they begin after the mid-day meal. 5. Women shall not go to fraternity houses or men's rooms where an approved chaperon is not present. 6. A record shall be kept of late utes. An accumulation of fifteen late utes results in the forfeiting of one end night chosen from the following two week-ends. A second offense of this calls for automatically forfeiting one entire week-end, including Friday, Saturday, and Sunday nights. Every student has the lege of petitioning to Judiciary Board for excusing of late minutes. A tardiness of more than thirty minutes must be referred to the Judiciary Board. 7. A returning student unavoidably layed for emergency reasons shall phone or telegraph her housemother mediately, and later write an explanatory letter to Judiciary Board. Telephone charges may be reversed temporarily and paid er to the College Treasurer. 8. College women shall return to their 19  houses within fifteen minutes after the close of a special mid-week campus tion and directly from Lansing from a iunction for which late permission has been granted. IV. Women students leaving East Lansing during the college term will comply with the following regulations: A. The name and address of the hostess and the telephone number if possible must be recorded on the A. W. S. record sheet, as also the proposed time of return. B. Trips for out of town may take place over Friday and Saturday evenings, provided they meet with the approval of the student's family and that hours are within A. W. S. rules. (See By-Laws III, c, 7.) C. For absence on other than Friday or Saturday evenings a written permit must be obtained in advance from the man of the Judiciary Board or the dent of A. W. S. or the Dean of office. Freshmen must have in addition a permission from home for any over-night absences. Upper class girls need special out-of-town permits first term. D. College women planning to leave the city on automobile trips, involving more than 45 miles of driving, shall ceive family consent if they are starting later than 11 :30 P. M. V. Absences from a college residence for overnight visits will be regulated as follows: granted with a written permit from the advisor of Judiciary Board: 20  A. One night a term out in a Lansing or East Lansing home. B. Or two nights a term in sorority houses or dormitories. C. Or one night in a Lansing or East Lansing home and one night in a sorority house or dormitory. D. Further overnight permission must be specially granted by Judiciary Board. E. Any exception to the above regulations must be arranged for in advance with the Judiciary Board or its advisor. VI. Registration of residence: A. All women students must register at the office of the Dean of Women any change of address during the school year. B. Out-of-town students shall live only in houses listed and approved by the Office of the Dean of Women. These students must obtain a permit from the Office of the Dean of Women for any change in address. VII. Final examination week hours and regulations: A. Any fifteen minute lateness which is completed this week-end or three blue slips acquired this week will be made up by staying in after 8:00 P. M. for 3 nights of examination week. During examination week, one night will be made up for every five minutes of lateness, blue slip, or waring incurred during the week. Any delibate infringement of returning hours will be dealt with by the Office of the Dean of Women, as the Judiciary Board does not meet examination week. 21  B. During the week of final tions, 11 P. M. permission is granted to the person who has no examination before noon on the following day and 12 P. M. permission on the evening following her last examination. Examination schedule must be presented to Housemother before such permissions are used. C. Dormitories close officially at 8 P. M. of the Friday night of examination week. Any girl wishing to remain in a dormitory or sorority house later than 8 P. M. Friday or more than 24 hours after her last amination must see Miss Petersen or Dean Conrad. LIMITATIONS The Associated Women Students have adopted a system whereby anyone woman student is limited in her participation in student activities. Under this system, the positions, offices, and other activities that a woman student may hold or engage in are divided into three distinct groups, lettered for ience, A, B, and C. Any student holding an A position may not hold any other on the campus. Possible combinations in the other groups are: one B and one C, or three C offices. Enforcement of these regulations is in the hands of a committee under A. W. S. With the authorization of the Office of the Dean of Women, this committee has the power to remove from office any student 22  who has exceeded the stated number of positions possible in any combination. The groupings are as follows: A Positions: President of A. w. S. B Positions: Officers of A. W. S. Council. President of Y. W. C. A. President of W. A. A. President of Panhellenic. President of Spartan Women's League. Presidents of Social Sororities. President of Home Economics Club. Co-ed Editor of Michigan State News. Chairman of Freshman Orientation. C Positions: President of all honorary societies. Member of cabinet, S. W. L. Members of the Board, W. A. A. Members of the Board, Y. W. C. A. Chairman of the Freshman Counselor System. . Chairman of Vocational Guidance. Members of the Board, Home Econo-mics Club. Members of the A. W. S. Council. Members of the Union Board. Members of all publication staffs. Offices, held by girls, which come under Student Council rating will be rated in correlation .with the above ratings. 23  FIRE REGULATIONS FOR DORMITORIES 1. Fire Captain. A fire captain for each dormitory shall be elected at the first of every term. She shall have supervision of all fire drills and be responsible to the Council. 2. Floor Aides. At least one aide for each floor of the dormitory shall be appointed by the fire captain of that dormitory. 3. Duties of the Fire Captain: 4. a. b. c. d. a. b. To take command in case of fire. To have general supervision of all fire drills and be responsible for their efficiency. To call the roll. To be responsible in case of real fire for notification of the fire department. Duties of the Fire Aides: In the absence of the Fire Captain of the dormitory the first aide on the first floor takes command. The aides on each floor are to be responsible for the presence of everyone on their floor at drills; they must have a list of those for whom they are responsible, and must see that they are in line, ready to go down stairs, and that order is preserved during fire drills, and in case of fire. c. Fire drills shall be called and regulations posted subject to the order of Superintendent of Buildings. 24 